Create v0.40.0 Doc branch (#1034)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane-lightning: README.rst

PennyLane-Lightning high performance simulators include the following backends:

* ``lightning.qubit``: a fast state-vector simulator written in C++ with optional `OpenMP <https://www.openmp.org/>`_ additions and parallelized gate-level SIMD kernels.
* ``lightning.gpu``: a state-vector simulator based on the `NVIDIA cuQuantum SDK <https://developer.nvidia.com/cuquantum-sdk>`_. It notably implements a distributed state-vector simulator based on `MPI <https://www.mpi-forum.org/docs/>`_.
* ``lightning.kokkos``: a state-vector simulator written with `Kokkos <https://kokkos.github.io/kokkos-core-wiki/index.html>`_. It can exploit the inherent parallelism of modern processing units supporting the `OpenMP <https://www.openmp.org/>`_, `CUDA <https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit>`_ or `HIP <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/HIP/en/latest/>`_ programming models.

> * ``lightning.tensor``: a tensor network simulator based on the `NVIDIA cuQuantum SDK <https://developer.nvidia.com/cuquantum-sdk>`_ (requires NVIDIA GPUs with SM 7.0 or greater). The supported methods are Matrix Product State (MPS) and Exact Tensor Network (TN).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``lightning.tensor``: a tensor network simulator based on the `NVIDIA cuQuantum SDK <https://developer.nvidia.com/cuquantum-sdk>`_. The supported methods are Matrix Product State (MPS) and Exact Tensor Network (TN).
```

    PL_BACKEND=${PL_BACKEND} pip install pybind11 pennylane-lightning --no-binary :all:

where ``${PL_BACKEND}`` can be ``lightning_qubit`` (default), ``lightning_gpu``,  ``lightning_kokkos``, or ``lightning_tensor``.

> The `pybind11 <https://pybind11.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_ library is required to bind the C++ functionality to Python. If installing Lightning-GPU, Lightning-Tensor, or Lightning-Kokkos, additional dependencies may be required. We recommend referring to the respective guides for `Lightning-GPU installation <https://docs.pennylane.ai/projects/lightning/en/stable/lightning_gpu/installation.html>`_, `Lightning-Tensor installation <https://docs.pennylane.ai/projects/lightning/en/stable/lightning_tensor/installation.html>`_, and `Lightning-Kokkos installation <https://docs.pennylane.ai/projects/lightning/en/stable/lightning_kokkos/installation.html>`_.

Reviewer 2: Reminder to use `:doc:` for internal linking here, rather than static links. Using `:doc:` will automatically keep readers on stable/latest

Reviewer 2: This goes for the internal links below as well :)

Reviewer: @josh146 I was trying to fix this one too! But this is the library's README file and the installation pages are not properly rendered when checking README from the repository main page. What's your suggestion?

Reviewer 2: ahhh, good point @maliasadi. Because of the readme being rendered on GitHub, we have no choice here but to use a static link. That's a shame.

For other rst pages though that only appear in the documentation, we should use :doc:

    make test-python device=${PL.DEVICE}

> where ``${PL.DEVICE}`` differ from ``${PL_BACKEND}`` by replacing the underscore by a dot. Options for ``${PL.DEVICE}`` are

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
where ``${PL.DEVICE}`` differs from ``${PL_BACKEND}`` by replacing the underscore with a period. Options for ``${PL.DEVICE}`` are
```

    PL_BACKEND="lightning_qubit" python scripts/configure_pyproject_toml.py
    SKIP_COMPILATION=True pip install -e . --config-settings editable_mode=compat -vv

> Note that `custatevec-cu12` is a requirement for Lightning-GPU, and is installed by ``pip`` separately. Then the ``CUQUANTUM_SDK`` environment variable can be set to enable discovery during installation:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that `custatevec-cu12` is a requirement for Lightning-GPU, and is installed by ``pip`` separately. After `custatevec-cu12` is installed, the ``CUQUANTUM_SDK`` environment variable should be set to enable discovery during installation:
```

    ``CUDA-aware MPI`` allows data exchange between GPU memory spaces of different nodes without the need for CPU-mediated transfers.
    Both the ``MPICH`` and ``OpenMPI`` libraries are supported, provided they are compiled with CUDA support.
    It is recommended to install the ``NVIDIA cuQuantum SDK`` and ``mpi4py`` Python package within ``pip`` or ``conda`` inside a virtual environment.
    Please consult the `cuQuantum SDK <https://developer.nvidia.com/cuquantum-sdk>`_ , `mpi4py <https://mpi4py.readthedocs.io/en/stable/install.html>`_,
    `MPICH <https://www.mpich.org/static/downloads/4.1.1/mpich-4.1.1-README.txt>`_, or `OpenMPI <https://www.open-mpi.org/faq/?category=buildcuda>`_ install guide for more information.

**Before installing Lightning-GPU with MPI support using the direct SDK path, please ensure that:**

.. note::

>     - Lightning-Qubit, ``CUDA-aware MPI`` and ``custatevec`` are installed.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Lightning-Qubit, ``CUDA-aware MPI`` and ``custatevec-cu12`` are installed.
```

Author: @maliasadi

>     - The environment variable ``CUQUANTUM_SDK`` is set properly.

Reviewer 3: > The environment variable ``CUQUANTUM_SDK`` is set properly.

Does "properly" mean the path pointing to the cuquantum SDK location? If so, maybe we can say that so it's clear.

Author: yes, a bash command is given to set it in the following context:
`export CUQUANTUM_SDK=$(python -c "import site; print( f'{site.getsitepackages()[0]}/cuquantum')") `

We suggest first installing Kokkos with the wanted configuration following the instructions found in the `Kokkos documentation <https://kokkos.github.io/kokkos-core-wiki/building.html>`_.
For example, the following will build Kokkos for NVIDIA A100 cards

Download the `Kokkos code <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/releases>`_. Lightning-Kokkos was tested with Kokkos version <= 4.5.0

.. code-block:: bash

    # Replace x, y, and z by the correct version

>     wget https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/archive/refs/tags/4.x.y.z.tar.gz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    wget https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/archive/refs/tags/4.x.yz.tar.gz
```

Author: may need corresponding changes for the context below

.. note::

>     The below section contains instructions for installing Lightning-Tensor **from source**. For most cases, *this is not required* and one can simply use the installation instructions at `pennylane.ai/install <https://pennylane.ai/install/#high-performance-computing-and-gpus>`__. If those instructions do not work for you, or you have a more complex build environment that requires building from source, then consider reading on.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The section below contains instructions for installing Lightning-Tensor **from source**. For most cases, *this is not required* and one can simply use the installation instructions at `pennylane.ai/install <https://pennylane.ai/install/#high-performance-computing-and-gpus>`__. If those instructions do not work for you, or you have a more complex build environment that requires building from source, then consider reading on.
```

    PL_BACKEND="lightning_qubit" python scripts/configure_pyproject_toml.py
    SKIP_COMPILATION=True pip install -e . --config-settings editable_mode=compat

> Note that `cutensornet-cu12` is a requirement for Lightning-Tensor, and is installed by ``pip`` separately. Then the ``CUQUANTUM_SDK`` environment variable can be set to enable discovery during installation:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that `cutensornet-cu12` is a requirement for Lightning-Tensor, and is installed by ``pip`` separately. After `cutensornet-cu12` is installed, the ``CUQUANTUM_SDK`` environment variable should be set to enable discovery during installation:
```

.. installation_LTensor-end-inclusion-marker-do-not-remove

> Lightning-Tensor also requires additional NVIDIA libraries including ``nvJitLink``, ``cuSOLVER``, ``cuSPARSE``, ``cuBLAS``, and ``CUDA runtime``. These can be installed through the `CUDA Toolkit <https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit/>`_ or from ``pip``.

Author: ```suggestion
Lightning-Tensor also requires additional NVIDIA libraries including ``nvJitLink``, ``cuSOLVER``, ``cuSPARSE``, ``cuBLAS``, and ``CUDA runtime``. These can be installed through the `CUDA Toolkit <https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit/>`_ or from ``pip``. Please ``pip`` install the ``*-cu12`` NVIDIA libraries.
```

Author: @maliasadi

Reviewer: It would confuses users! Let's not be too specific! They would know which cu* to install depending on their cuda version

Author: Let's remove cusolver stuff here

> Lightning-Tensor also requires additional NVIDIA libraries including ``nvJitLink``, ``cuSOLVER``, ``cuSPARSE``, ``cuBLAS``, and ``CUDA runtime``. These can be installed through the `CUDA Toolkit <https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit/>`_ or from ``pip``.

Reviewer 3: Do we want this to show up on the rendered docs?

Author: yes
